management needs; each student will also complete a final project that takes a data science
need from start to finish (framing the problem, choosing data sources, exploratow data analysis,
modeling, communicating results). Currently the final project is planned to be around market
sizing and risk mitigation: in the first part of the project, the student selects an idea, identifies
customer segments and then draws on publicly available data sources to estimate size of those
segments. In the second phase students will identify risks and plans for measuring and
mitigating the risks.

Outcomes

The main learning objectives of the course are to:

1. Identify decision points during the product life cycle where data science techniques are
applicable

2. Select metrics, product instrumentation, external data sources, modeling techniques and
tools for use in product management decision-making

3. Apply selected basic modeling (e.g. classification, clustering, time series analysis, and
text analytics) to product management; critique applicability and output from more
advanced techniques.

4. Plan and execute a data science project at realistic scale to inform at least one product
management decision demonstrating mastery of objectives #1 - #3.

Instructor: David Steier (PhD, CMU 808 ‘89)

David Steier is Managing Director in the Advanced Analytics and Modeling practice of Deloitte
Consulting LLP. At Deloitte, David has helped clients use advanced data analytics and
visualization in a variety of industries including healthcare, life sciences, banking, retail,
manufacturing, technology, telecommunications, media and the public sector. Prior to Deloitte,
David was director in the Center for Advanced Research at PwC, senior director of technology
and business development at Kanisa, and managing director at Scient. Beyond his over 25
years of professional experience, David holds a Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie
Mellon and a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Purdue University. David has taught
analytics project capstone courses and courses on Managing Analytics Projects course at CMU
and at the University of California Berkeley.

The teaching assistant for this class will be Prajwal Vasisht, who is enrolled in the School of
Computer Science in the MSBIC program.

Course Resources

An online site with the syllabus, selected readings, Python resources has been created in

Piazza. . The system is highly catered to getting you help fast and efficiently from classmates,
the TA, and myself. Rather than emailing questions, we encourage you to post your questions
on Piazza. If you have any problems or feedback for the developers, email team@piazza.com.

DRAFT: Work in progress, not for quotation, last edited October 21, 2017

